#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble

%\usepackage[options]{natbib}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
%\usepackage{sectsty}
%\usepackage{harvard}
\usepackage{ctable}
\usepackage{rotating}
\usepackage{lscape}
\usepackage{url}
\widowpenalty 500
\clubpenalty 500

%\usepackage[latin9]{inputenc}

\usepackage{units}


\newcommand*{\colvec}[1]{\begin{bmatrix}#1\end{bmatrix}}

\newcounter{subfigure}
\newcounter{appendix}


%\doublespacing
%\input{tcilatex}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 2
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes true
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\author -1412874244 "sseiler"
\author -503570337 "v-gizerv"
\author 2105412453 "Song Yao"
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:intro"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512500956
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512501024
Giorgos, please provide some number review volume and time trends.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512525066
Song, please provide number on conversation volume
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512525088
SS: I will re-write this to focus on WOM volume instead of social media
 spending.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the biggest shifts in the marketing landscape in recent years has
 been a shift towards social media platforms to advertise products or have
 consumers advocate on the brand's behalf.
 Marketing spending on social media is projected to amount to 20% of marketing
 budgets by 2020 and online word-of-mouth (WOM) is considered to be one
 of the most effective forms of marketing by many marketing executive.
 At the same time, systematic empirical evidence on the effectiveness of
 paid and earned advertising is relatively scant.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512246518

\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512525109

\series bold
(GZ: Is it really 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

scant
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

? If it is scant, then what are all these papers we cite below? I would
 put it like this: the growth in spending has been parallel by an increasing
 academic interest in systematically measuring the effects of WOM that we
 document in this chapter.)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512525136
SS: agreed, that wording comes from the scant evidence on conversation related
 WOM.
 For reviews there is much more and hence this should be re-worded.
 Will do this once I have the data on WOM volume and time trend for reviews
 and conversations.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
This is partly due to social media marketing being a relatively recent phenomeno
n, but partly also due to unique measurement challenges in this area which
 we outline in detail below.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this chapter we outline the current state of the academic literature
 on 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682725
the impact of 
\change_unchanged
online WOM
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682729
 on demand
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512682730
 (rather than advertising run directly by firms.)
\change_unchanged
.
 We first outline measurement challenges in the realm of WOM and how they
 can be resolved.
 We then summarize recent findings on the effectiveness of WOM in two domains:
 customer reviews and online conversations about brands on platforms like
 twitter or other social media.
 The former are a type of activity that typically occurs after consumption
 and that imposes a specific structure (often a rating scale) on consumers'
 WOM.
 The latter instead are less structured and can take place before or after
 consumption.
 These two areas are 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512682743
hence 
\change_unchanged
sufficiently different to treat them separately.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512525376
Finally, we turn from the analysis of whether WOM is effective to the question
 of why it is effective.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Measuring the Impact of WOM 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512246614

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512246617
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512526592
SS: Regarding how to tone down advertising.
 I looked at this again and found it easier to start with advertising in
 each case because it sets things up for WOM and will be more familiar.
 I did add some more detail though on why we talk about advertising.
 It is all in tracked changes below.
 Let me know what you think ...
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682878
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682897
SS: Two broad questions for you guys:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683370
(1) can you check whether it is clear throughout this section that WOM could
 refer to either reviews or conversations? I had originally written this
 more with conversations in mind.
 I added one sentence just before 2.1 that tries to clarify this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682969
(2) I am thinking we should drop the section on differential bias.
 It does not connect well with the rest of the paper and removing it would
 streamline things.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to understand the measurement challenges and possible solutions
 when estimating the impact of WOM, it is instructive to draw parallels
 to the measurement of advertising effectiveness.
 The approaches to estimation in both realms share some common features,
 but also diverge in 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512682832
important
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682833
several
\change_unchanged
 ways
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512682837
 which we outline below
\change_unchanged
.

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682851
 Importantly, methods for measuring advertising effectiveness, which are
 fairly well developed, cannot be directly applied to measuring the impact
 of WOM.
 Hence, marketing managers need to develop new frameworks for measuring
 WOM impact.
 We outline several methods below and discuss the situations in which they
 can be applied.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As an illustration for the general measurement framework we consider the
 case of a firm offering multiple products that are characterized by different
 advertising and WOM intensit
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682859
ies
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512682858
y
\change_unchanged
.
 The firm has historic data on marketing
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512682981
 activity
\change_unchanged
, i.e.
 WOM and advertising, and demand (e.g.
 quantity sold, click-through rates, conversions) at the product-level and
 wishes to understand the impact of advertising and WOM on demand.

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683274
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683158
 
\change_unchanged
The general logic of our arguments below easily extends to situations where
 data are available at the consumer rather than the product level.

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683408
 For the remainder of this section, we refer generically to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

WOM intensity
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and do not distinguish between specific types of WOM such as the number
 of tweets, number of consumer reviews etc.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Measurement challenges
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686665

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686677
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "subsec: measurement challenges"

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Cross-sectional inference
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A simple approach for measurement using a standard linear regression framework
 would be to regress some measure of demand on each type of marketing activity
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
Demand_{j}=\alpha+\beta\times Marketing_{j}+\varepsilon_{j}
\]

\end_inset

where the index 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 refers to a product.
 One would then run a separate regression using either advertising or word-of-mo
uth as the explanatory marketing variable.
 This regression effectively compares products with high and low advertising
 / WOM and ask whether demand increases or decreases as a function of marketing.
 In order for the effect of marketing on demand, captured by the coefficient
 
\begin_inset Formula $\beta$
\end_inset

, to be interpreted as a 
\shape italic
causal
\shape default
 effect, 
\begin_inset Formula $Marketing_{j}$
\end_inset

 needs to be uncorrelated with the regression error term 
\begin_inset Formula $\varepsilon_{j}$
\end_inset

.
 Hence, any factor that might influence demand, such as the quality of the
 product, has to be uncorrelated with advertising / WOM.
 Random assignment of marketing in an A/B-test setting does assure that
 there is no correlation.
 Here we contemplate the situation 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683045
of historic data on demand and marketing activity 
\change_unchanged
where marketing activity is not necessarily randomly assigned.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512525709
In fact, the very purpose of marketing departments would generally be to
 systematically allocate marketing dollars differentially across products.

\change_unchanged
 We 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512526285
discuss in turn advertising and WOM below
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512612222
start with a discussion of (the more familiar case of) measuring advertising
 impact as a reference point and then highlight similarities and differences
 regarding WOM impact
\change_unchanged
.
 In each case we need to assess which underlying factors lead to a given
 level of the relevant activity in the historic data used in the regression.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With regards to advertising, we need to ask ourselves whether marketing
 activity is correlated with any factors that also affect demand directly
 (and that are therefore captured in 
\begin_inset Formula $\varepsilon_{j}$
\end_inset

).
 A likely scenario in many settings is the case where popular products that
 sold well in the past are advertised more heavily.
 Hence 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

product popularity
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is correlated with advertising intensity and also influences demand.
 Or put differently, products with high advertising levels would have enjoyed
 high demand even in the absence of advertising due to their inherent popularity.
 Such a correlation will lead to an overestimation of the impact of advertising
 on demand.
 As we show in more detail below, it does indeed seem to be the case that
 an upward bias typically occurs in 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683057
cross-sectional 
\change_unchanged
studies of advertising impact.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
One 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683068
salient
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683069
notable
\change_unchanged
 exception where the bias can go in opposite direction is so-called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

activity bias
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 in studies of online advertising (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Lewis_Reiley_2014"

\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the case of WOM, a similar type of bias can occur for slightly different
 reasons.
 Contrary to advertising, WOM is not directly under the firm's control,
 and hence we need to ask whether any product characteristics that lead
 consumers to talk about the product might also have a direct effect on
 demand.
 Here a scenario of reverse causality seems likely, i.e., high demand products
 that a lot of consumers buy will likely also be talked about by a lot of
 consumers.
 This relationship does indeed seem fairly mechanical.
 While consumer might talk about products even without buying them, it seems
 likely that a higher number of purchases will lead to a larger number of
 people that can potentially talk about the product online.
 Note that there is some parallel to the mechanism that caused upward bias
 in the relationship of advertising and demand.
 Inherently more attractive and popular products tend to be advertised more
 heavily and garner more WOM.
 Hence, a simple cross-sectional analysis of WOM is likely to also overstate
 its effectiveness.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Inference with panel data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An alternative approach that deals with some of the problems outlined above
 is one that relies on panel data with fixed effects at the level of the
 cross-sectional unit.
 Such an analysis requires data on demand and marketing for various products
 over time, which is often available to firms.
 The fixed effect regression takes the following form
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
Demand_{jt}=\xi_{j}+\gamma\times Marketing_{jt}+\nu_{jt}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
where 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{j}$
\end_inset

 denotes the fixed effect for product 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset


\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683453
 that stays invariant over time
\change_unchanged
.
 Note also that demand and marketing are now indexed by 
\begin_inset Formula $(jt)$
\end_inset

 to indicate that we have product/time-period specific data on those variables.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In contrast to the cross-sectional approach, we are now relating changes
 in marketing over time to changes in demand.
 I.e.
 we are asking whether in time-periods with relatively higher marketing
 intensity (for a given product) demand for that product increases.
 Importantly, any product characteristics that do not change over time do
 not pose a problem when using this approach because we control for the
 influence of such factors through product fixed effects (
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{j}$
\end_inset

).
 For instance products that are more popular might have higher 
\shape italic
levels
\shape default
 of marketing and demand, but this is unproblematic because the regression
 is relating changes over time in both marketing and demand to each other,
 while controlling 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683461
the
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683461
for
\change_unchanged
 time-invariant popularity levels through the fixed effects.
 Hence in terms of threat to a causal interpretation of the impact of marketing,
 we need to consider whether there are 
\shape italic
time-varying
\shape default
 factors that correlate with marketing and also have a direct effect on
 demand.
 In the case of advertising we are cautiously optimistic that the approach
 above will recover the correct causal estimate.
 It is however much less likely to be an approach that can be applied to
 measuring WOM effectiveness.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With regards to advertising we need to ask whether time periods in which
 advertising levels are higher are systematically different from other time
 periods in terms of demand.
 Whether this is the case again depends on the process by which advertising
 is set and that causes it to vary over time.
 In many markets there exists relatively high frequency variation in advertising
 such as for instance in consumer packages goods where supermarkets advertise
 different products through feature advertising leaflets in different weeks.
 In this market, advertising is often 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

locked in
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 in advance through longer-term advertising plans between manufacturers
 and advertisers.
 Consequently, the specific weeks in which advertising is run are not chosen
 in a particularly strategic way (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "rossi_2014"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_Yao_2017"

\end_inset

).
 Hence in such cases the panel approach is likely to yield a causal estimate.
 Some empirical evidence also points in the direction that fixed effects
 regressions work well in this context.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "shapiro_drug_ads"

\end_inset

 finds that estimates change little when moving from fixed effects to more
 rigorous controls.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The paper employs a regression discontinuity design at media market boundaries
 together with a fixed approach.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Gordon_Hartmann_2013"

\end_inset

 find that in the case of political advertising controlling for (market-level)
 fixed effects leads to a substantial reduction in effect size whereas further
 controls change effect magnitude to a lesser degree.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683477
Of course, the validity of such an approach needs to be assessed on a case-by-ca
se basis.
 An example of a situation where the approach is not valid would be the
 heavy advertising of turkey around thanksgiving.
 In this time period sales of turkey would be higher even in the absence
 of advertising and hence attributing the demand increase to the concurrent
 advertising increase likely incorrect.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Turning to WOM, we think that the panel approach is less likely to work
 in this setting.
 This is due to an extension of the argument made in the cross-sectional
 case above.
 If demand increases for a given product over time, it is likely that WOM
 intensity increases as a result of the higher demand.
 For instance, consider a setting where we analyze data from a TV show over
 time and find that when viewership of the show increased, WOM also tended
 to be higher.
 It is very likely that higher viewership was causing higher WOM levels
 rather than the other way around.
 In the case of advertising such changes over time could also happen, for
 instance a firm might shift advertising dollars to products that experience
 sales increases.
 However this relationship is likely to be less direct than in the case
 of WOM
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683626
.
 We expect WOM to react rapidly to changes in demand whereas advertising
 allocation will tend to adapt more slowly
\change_unchanged
.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683611
With regard to WOM, it is hard to imagine situations where demand changes
 without affecting WOM.
 
\change_unchanged
Hence relative 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512683640
the
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683640
to
\change_unchanged
 the case of advertising, the panel approach is much less promising in the
 case of WOM.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Absolute bias and differential bias across marketing channels
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683499

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683502
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512683515
SS: as mentioned at the beginning of this section, shall we drop this sub-sectio
n?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As we argued above, simple cross-sectional measurement of advertising and
 WOM effectiveness is likely to suffer from an upward bias, i.e.
 both types of marketing will tend to appear more effective than they actually
 are.
 There is some evidence in the existing literature that such bias does indeed
 incur.
 With regards to advertising the first piece of evidence comes from comparing
 estimates of advertising effectiveness between correlational studies and
 studies with a careful causal design.
 The small set of papers in the latter category (e.g.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "super_bowl_ads"

\end_inset

 , 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "shapiro_drug_ads"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "tuchman_2016"

\end_inset

)
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
These papers all study TV advertising.
 There is also a large literature on online advertising that provides causal
 estimates of advertising impact from A/B tests.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 tend to find effects that are much smaller than correlational estimates.
 Causal advertising elasticities in such studies are estimated to be around
 0.03, i.e.
 doubling advertising increases sales by 3 percent, whereas correlational
 estimates are on average equal to 0.12 (see the meta-analysis in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Sethuraman_et_al2011"

\end_inset

).
 Second, a small number of studies show the change in estimates when moving
 from simple correlations to causal research designs.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "shapiro_drug_ads"

\end_inset

 documents that cross-sectional advertising elasticities are equal to about
 0.07, but drop to 0.02 when switching to a fixed effect approach.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Gordon_Hartmann_2013"

\end_inset

 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609525
have
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609526
report
\change_unchanged
 a similar finding.
 The 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609462
elasticity
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609490
impact of advertising decreases by about 50 percent when fixed effects are
 included.

\change_unchanged
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609498
estimates of advertising with a better control of fixed effects are around
 0.03, but the level is 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512337599
tripled
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609498
doubled when some fixed effects are dropped.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512075180

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512075239
SS: Song, the wording in the last sentence is a bit vague.
 Is it not just fixed effects versus no fixed effects? Why does it say 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

some fixed effects
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

? Also, are there multiple elasticities (the text says elasticity esitmates)?
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512338083
 SY: In Gordon and Hartmann (2013), column 7 Table 5 is the preferred specificat
ion.
 Column 2, which does not control DMA-party FEs, the coefficients more than
 doubled.
 It still controls other FEs.
 Technically, we can say 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

when fixed effects are dropped
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 instead of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

some fixed effects
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Another thing, I don't think Gordon and Hartmann explicitly talked about
 the elasticitiy comparison (at least I did not find it).
 There is a calcualation of elasticity in table 6, based on column 7 of
 table 5.
 But no mention of the elasticity when the DMA-party FEs are dropped.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609500

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609517
SS: I see, I changed the text a bit to make it simpler.
 Does that new statement seem correct?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The set of papers on WOM is much smaller, especially with regards to causal
 research designs, however tentative evidence pointing to an upward bias
 also exists.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

 find an elasticity of demand with respect to WOM of 0.016 whereas the meta-analy
sis of mostly correlational studies in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "you_et_al_2010"

\end_inset

 find an average elasticity of 0.2.
 Several individual studies in the realm of WOM find even much higher elasticiti
es.
 For instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "sonnier_et_al2011"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Dhar_Chang_2009"

\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Liu_2006"

\end_inset

 estimate WOM elasticities between 0.59 and 1.04 across a variety of markets.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An important point with regards to the decision of how to allocate dollars
 across different marketing channels is the fact that while both advertising
 and WOM elasticity are biased upwards, the magnitude of the bias is not
 identical.
 Existing evidence suggests that the upward bias is larger in the case of
 WOM and hence one might incorrectly conclude the WOM is more effective
 than advertising.
 Specifically, WOM compares favorably with advertising when considering
 correlational studies with elasticities of 0.12 and 0.2 for advertising and
 WOM respectively.
 The relative effectiveness however flips when we focus on causal estimates
 which yield an elasticities of 0.03 and 0.016 for advertising and WOM.
 It is however important to point out that there are few causal studies
 and hence our statement with regards to relative effectiveness should be
 taken with caution at this point.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
A/B-test
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684146
 and WOM
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684146
s
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A/B tests (also referred to as randomized field experiments) allow for clean
 causal inference and are increasingly used in many academic studies of
 advertising effectiveness (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citealt
key "Lewis_Reiley_2014"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citealt
key "chris_ebay_experiment"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citealt
key "Sahni_spacing_ad"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citealt
key "brett_florian"

\end_inset

) as well as by practitioners 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "forbes2017"

\end_inset

.
 A/B test involve randomly allocating different amounts of advertising to
 different products or groups of consumers.
 For example, in the context of social media advertising, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "gong_et_al_2015"

\end_inset

 randomly sent tweets about TV shows from the company's official account.
 The authors of the study randomly sen
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684155
t
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684155
d
\change_unchanged
 tweets for a subset of TV show and then compare
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684159
d
\change_unchanged
 viewership of these shows with the viewership number of shows that were
 not tweeted about (the control group).
 Such an approach circumvents the concerns raised above in the context of
 cross-sectional and panel regressions.
 If tweets (or any other type of marketing activity) is randomly assigned,
 it is by construction not correlated with the 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684167
error 
\change_unchanged
regression error and a simple regression of the relevant outcome measure
 can be used to recover the causal impact.
 In this example the relevant regression would be
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
Viewership_{j}=\alpha+\beta\times Treatment_{j}+\varepsilon_{j}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $Treatment_{j}$
\end_inset

 is equal to one if a tweet was sent out regarding show 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

, i.e.
 show 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 was in the treatment group.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is easy to see that this research paradigm can not be easily 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609585
translated
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609586
applied
\change_unchanged
 to 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609590
study
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512609592
the realm of
\change_unchanged
 WOM
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684198
 or more generally, the impact of any type of activity that is not under
 the firm's control
\change_unchanged
.
 Running an A/B-test requires direct control of the variable of interests,
 e.g.
 the company's tweets in the example above, in order to implement a random
 assignment of that variable.
 In the case of WOM however, firms will generally not have the ability to
 randomly 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684215
generate or eliminate
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684216
vary
\change_unchanged
 WOM 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684237
for some subset of
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684238
across
\change_unchanged
 products.
 This leads to one of the most effective and simple tools of causal measurement
 not being available in the case of measuring WOM effectiveness.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We note that there could be situations where an experimental manipulation
 of WOM is feasible, but the scope for such manipulations is likely to be
 limited.
 For instance, in principle one could imagine that a social media platform
 could decide not to show tweets pertaining to a randomly selected group
 of products.
 A firm that was interested in studying the impact of WOM and was able to
 convince the platform to co-operate in the experiment could achieve an
 experimental manipulation of WOM due to randomly elimination of tweets
 across products.
 Our sense is that platforms will be unlikely to cooperate in such experiments
 as there might be backlash from users whose tweets do not appear due to
 the A/B test.
 A further option would be randomly generate rather than eliminate WOM by
 generating tweets from fake accounts or incentivizing users to tweets on
 the firm's behalf.
 Such activity is however likely to be something the platform would oppose
 and 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684271
could potentially also 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684278
is likely to 
\change_unchanged
violate the FTC's truth-in-advertising standard
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684263
 as paid tweets would have to be disclosed
\change_unchanged
.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096358

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096362
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096413
SS: it seems that for reviews that are some experiments (such as generating
 a duplicate seller account with no reviews).
 Giorgos, is there a way to characterize which experiments are feasible
 in this context, is there anything here that firms can easily copy and
 implement?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Correctly measuring causal effects
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687277

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687289
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "subsec: correctly measuring"

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We argued in the previous section, that WOM effectiveness is difficult to
 measure reliably and methods that can be applied to studies of advertising
 impact are either not available (in the case of A/B tests) or unlikely
 to work (in the case of fixed effects regressions).
 Having 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684296
clearly 
\change_unchanged
outlined the obstacles to correct measurement, we now turn to discussing
 methods that can be used to estimate causal WOM effects.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Natural Experiments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Natural experiments are a useful tool for causal inference that is sometimes
 available to researchers interested in measuring the causal impact of WOM
 on demand.
 Natural experiments
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684310
, also known as quasi-experimental variation,
\change_unchanged
 rely on historical data that happens to contain events that affect WOM
 but are otherwise unrelated to demand.
 These events are used to isolate exogenous variation in the historical
 patterns of WOM.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To fix ideas, we begin by discussing a concrete example from 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

 who study the impact of user-generated microblogging on Chinese TV show
 viewership.
 The authors have access to historical data on the daily number of tweets
 related to each show as well as the viewership numbers for different episodes
 of the same show.
 During the time period covered by the data, Sina Weibo – the most popular
 Chinese microblogging platform – was unexpectedly shut-down for a brief
 period of time
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684319
, creating a natural experiment
\change_unchanged
.
 The shutdown qualifies as a natural experiment because it was driven by
 political events that are highly unlikely to have been related to TV viewership
 rates.
 Therefore, the sudden change in microblogging activity
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512609995
 
\change_unchanged
 due to the shut-down can be used to estimate the causal impact of the WOM
 on demand.
 
\change_inserted -503570337 1512406073

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512611334
In order to isolate the variation in WOM driven by the natural experiment
\change_unchanged
, the authors implement an instrumental variable (IV) approach in a panel
 fixed-effect regression framework (similar to the framework outlined above):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
Viewership_{jt}=\xi_{j}+\gamma\times WOM{}_{jt}+\nu_{jt}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $Viewership_{jt}$
\end_inset

 denotes demand for the episode of show 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 that aired on day 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $WOM_{jt}$
\end_inset

 denotes the number of tweets about the show on day 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
 To isolate exogenous variation in WOM, the WOM measure is instrumented
 with a dummy variable that is equal to one 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684376
if 
\change_unchanged
for episodes 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684379
that 
\change_unchanged
aired during the shut-down, and zero otherwise.
 This regression recovers the causal impact of WOM on demand if the instrument
 and the error term are uncorrelated, even if WOM itself is correlated with
 the error term.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In general, any event that affects WOM without directly affecting demand
 qualifies as a natural experiment.
 Another example of such an event is the merger of two review platforms
 studied by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lewis2016welfare"

\end_inset

.
 Prior to the merger the two platforms were collecting reviews separately,
 each platform computing average ratings using its own database of reviews.
 The merger of the review databases led to a sudden change in average ratings.
 Similar to the shut-down of Sina Weibo, the the merger of the two review
 databases in unlikely to have been related to demand.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684394
Thus the merger can be thought of as a natural experiment.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main difficulty in using natural experiments as a tool for causal inference
 is identifying the natural experiments in the first place.
 Events that cause 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684400
large 
\change_unchanged
exogenous changes in the status quo are rare, and pinpointing them often
 requires expert domain knowledge.
 Moreover, arguing for the suitability of different events as a natural
 experiments has to be done on a case-by-case basis.
 This is in contrast to methods like A/B testing and fixed-effects regressions,
 which can be readily implemented by firms to provide a standardized 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684428
and continuous 
\change_unchanged
analytical toolkit.
 Despite this limitation, because natural experiments are usually broad
 in scope, once identified, they can be leveraged to analyze different product
 markets and outcomes of interest.

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684577
 For example, both the shut-down and the merger described above constitute
 platform wide shocks that can the used to study WOM effects for any set
 of products represented on the respective platform.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A second limitation of natural experiments is that they can yield estimates
 that 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512611264
are
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512611266
tend to be
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512611268
 highly
\change_unchanged
 context-specific.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512611273
Similar to traditional 
\series bold
(??? help – better keyword than traditional guys???)
\series default
 experiments run by firms, natural experiments trade-off internal for external
 validity.
 
\change_unchanged
For instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lewis2016welfare"

\end_inset

 can estimate the causal impact of ratings in July 2013, the date of the
 review platform merger.
 This natural experiment cannot provide insight as to the magnitude of the
 treatment effect at other points in time
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512611254
 without further assumption
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512611286
, thus limiting its external validity
\change_unchanged
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A final concern with natural experiments, especially those causing large
 changes to the status quo, is that firms or individuals may anticipate
 them and strategically adjust their behavior.
 In this case, comparisons of outcomes shortly before and shortly after
 the natural experiment can result in biased estimates.
 Thus, natural experiments are more convincing when evidence can be furnished
 that they were unpredictable.
 An indicative (but not conclusive) piece of evidence is the absence of
 pre-treatment trends.
 To the extent that natural experiments are unpredictable, patterns of the
 outcome variable just before the natural experiment should look similar
 to historical patterns.
 Unexplained systematic variation prior to the natural experiment may suggest
 the natural experiment is invalid.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
GZ: OK I AGREE BIG-SMALL IS USELESS DISTINCTION SO SKIPPING THIS PARA: Alternati
vely, researchers can exploit multiple 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

small
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 natural experiments.
 Small experiments carry little statistical power individually.
 However, when many small experiments are available they can be jointly
 analyzed to yield reliably estimates.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "proserpio2016you"

\end_inset

 rely on this approach to estimate the impact of Airbnb ratings on the rental
 prices of Airbnb properties.
 The average rating of each Airbnb property is only disclosed to consumers
 once the property has accumulated three reviews.
 These disclosures can be thought of as a series of small natutal experiments
 – one for each Airbnb property reaching three reviews.
 The assumption underlying the validity of these natural experiments is
 that the arrival of the third review is unpredictable, and thus uncorrelated
 with unobserved demand variation.
 Moreover, these experiments are 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

small
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 in the sence that the disclosure of any single property's average rating
 would be an uninformative event.
 However, taken together, with access to many such small experiments we
 can reliably estimate the impact of ratings on Airbnb property prices.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
A/B tests as Instruments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A method that is related to the one just outlined, but more readily available
 is an indirect manipulation of WOM.
 The key idea is to use information on any activity that a firm might be
 using to foster WOM among its users.
 For instance, it could be the case that firms is running a targeted advertising
 campaigns to users that provided positive WOM in the past.
 In a setting where the firms sells different products, it could randomly
 assign products to such a targeted advertising campaigns.
 Hence, for some randomly selected set of products, active users are targeted
 with advertising and start generating additional WOM.
 Relative to a standard A/B test the random assignment has been applied
 not directly to the variable of interest, but to an activity (targeted
 advertising in this case) that is under the firm's control and correlated
 with the variable of interest.
 This approach allows us to combine some of the strengths of A/B tests with
 the natural experiment framework.
 Namely, we can now regress demand on WOM and use the randomly assigned
 variable as an instrument for WOM.
 As before, we are thus isolating the variation in WOM that is due to the
 randomly assigned variable.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512613266

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684911
An example of such an approach is the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

peer encouragement
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 design used by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Eckles_et_al_2016"

\end_inset

.
 The authors randomly alter the Facebook interface of some users such that
 they become more likely to provide feedback (such as likes) to other users
 in their network.
 They then study the impact of the altered feedback behavior of the affected
 users on the behavior of their peers.
 Although this study does not measure the impact of WOM on demand but rather
 on user behavior within Facebook, the general framework is identical to
 the one described above.
 In this case, the assignment to an interface that makes feedback more likely
 serves as an instrument for the actual feedback behavior.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512684629
An experiment of this kind requires the cooperation of the platform and
 hence might be hard to implement for individual firms.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Such an approach
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512613950
 based on A/B tests
\change_unchanged
 has the advantage that it is scale-able.
 Contrary to natural experiments, we are not constraint to leverage existing
 variation that might occur infrequently, but can instead generate useful
 (i.e.
 random) variation ourselves.
 At the same time, by applying the A/B test mechanics indirectly, we circumvent
 the issue that WOM is not directly under the firm's control.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main downside of this approach is that it might be hard to find intervention
s that affect WOM without also directly affecting demand.
 In our 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512613983
first 
\change_unchanged
example above, it is likely that the targeted advertising campaign not only
 affect the amount of WOM but also make the users receiving advertising
 more likely to buy the product.
 Hence the instrument will affect demand directly and not only via its impact
 on WOM.
 In this particular case, the problem could be solved if one can track the
 sales of users that were targeted with advertising and only study the impact
 of WOM on demand of users that did not receive any advertising.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Regression Discontinuity
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512684960
 Approach
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686047

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686050
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686103
SS: I re-wrote this section.
 I took parts of Song's earlier version, but found it easier to propose
 a new set of paragraphs rather than altering the existing ones.
 please have a look and feel free to further edit.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512685746
A final approach that can be useful to measure the impact of a specific
 type of WOM is a regression discontinuity (RD) approach.
 While this approach is more narrow in its application to the context of
 WOM, is does provide a broadly applicable approach to measuring the impact
 of review valence, i.e.
 the impact of a higher average review rating.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686215
The approach is most easily explained by focusing on the particular application
 to review valence.
 A common way of presenting the average rating score of a particular product
 to users is through a star rating that is rounded to the nearest half star.
 Yelp (as well as many other platforms) present average ratings in this
 particular way.
 The rounding generates a discontinuous jump in the perceived rating and
 two products with very similar underlying scores might take on different
 values on the half-star scale.
 For instance two products with average ratings of 4.24 and 4.26 will be presented
 as rating 4 and 4.5 star products, respectively.
 We can compare such products which are characterized by similar continuous
 scores but different star ratings to isolate the impact of the star rating.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512685572
Note that this is different from comparing ALL products with say 4 versus
 4.5 stars.
 It is reasonable to believe that products with higher star ratings are
 systematically different along other dimensions that correlate with demand.
 Instead, products near the threshold are likely to be similar except for
 their star ratings and hence the causal impact of the latter can be obtained
 by comparing demand for products marginally above and marginally below
 the threshold.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686319
This approach leverages the specific institutional feature of rounded star
 ratings that many platform use.
 Hence it cannot be applied to setting where the average rating is presented
 without rounding.
 However, the widespread usage of the rounded star ratings format does make
 the RD design a widely applicable approach.
 Importantly, any firm that sells multiple products through a platform that
 uses rounded rating scores can find the subset of products in their assortment
 that have ratings close to to the rounding cut-offs and implement the approach
 just outlined.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686346
Contrary to natural experiments, RD thus provides a scale-able and broadly
 applicable approach to measuring WOM effectiveness.
 The approach is however limited in scope to the analysis of review valence
 and cannot be applied to study the impact of other aspects of WOM such
 as the number of reviews.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512686043
Regression discontinuity (RD) is another more readily available approach
 for firms to study the effect of online WOM on demand, in particular online
 reviews.
 This approach explores the discontinuity of some measures of WOM, or the
 discontinuity of some marketing measures that affect WOM.
 The cause of such discontinuity, however, are arguably uncorrelated with
 the variation of demand, hence providing convincing identification for
 the causal inference.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512686043
To facilitate an easier exposition, consider a classical example of online
 WOM, Yelp reviews of restaurants.
 As discussed above, directly regressing demand on the average ratings may
 not result in reliable causal inference.
 In this case, we may take advantage of an artificial fact of how Yelp presents
 the ratings to its users.
 The most common way of presenting these reviews to consumers is the average
 rating of a restaurant, which is a unweighted simple average across all
 ratings provided by consumers pertaining to the restaurant.
 When computing the average rating, Yelp (and many other platforms) rounds
 the result to the nearest half star (e.g., 4.0 or 4.5).
 Such a rounding method creates the discontinuity that is uncorrelated with
 demand.
 For example, a restaurant with an average rating of 4.24 and another one
 of 4.25 will be presented as rating 4.0 and 4.5, respectively.
 These two restaurants are arguably having similar quality due to the closeness
 of their actual average ratings (4.24 vs.
 4.25).
 The artificial and much larger difference of 0.5 in ratings due to the rounding,
 however, may lead to variations in demand, which can be attributed to online
 WOM.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512686043
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Luca_2016,anderson_magruder_2012"

\end_inset

 pioneered the use of RD to measure the causal effect of Yelp ratings on
 restaurant demand by exploiting the rounding feature.
 We discuss these two papers in detail in section XX.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512686120
Example for Causal Inference
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686133
Measurement Challenges and Solutions: Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686136
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686146
SS: Song, up to you to put a transition paragraph here!
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Consumer Reviews
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: my take on how to organize this paragraph:
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686462
 (NOTE (SS): I removed thing that are already addressed from this note!
 as of 12/7/2017)
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
2) Then organize into section on impact / effect magnitude
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** b) a discussion of magnitude is missing so far, it would be nice to put
 effects into context.
 Are they economically large in the various settings (presumably the papers
 provide something to benchmark them against).
 Comparing them across studies might be hard, but to the extent possible
 that would be nice.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** c) Can we say anything about the extent of bias in the estimates.
 I.e.
 when regressing demand on star rating, how would we go wrong.
 We can both look within papers at such comparisons (if they exists) and
 across causal versus correlational papers (this might be hard to do exhaustivel
y and in a consistent manner)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
3) Finally, have a separate section on moderators (currently this content
 is presented together with the discussion of main effects).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** a) It would be useful to organize this along dimensions that matter,
 i.e.
 which firms benefit most from reviews, in which markets/ on which platforms
 are they most effective, did they change over time, etc..
 Maybe a paragraph on each dimension that is relevant would be the most
 natural way to organize this section.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511995081
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511995143
SY: We need a better connection between this section and the identification
 section above.
 If needed, I can work on this after Stephan gives his comments.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
Academic interest in consumer reviews goes nearly as far back as the appearance
 of the first online reputation systems on e-commerce platforms like eBay
 and Amazon.
 Reviews – the information units of reputation systems – typically consist
 of a numeric score (typically represented as a rating between 1 and 5 stars),
 the review submission date, and some open-ended text that allows consumers
 to evaluate a business (or a product) in their own words.
 Some reputation systems allow consumers to attach pictures to their reviews,
 and to separately rate businesses on dimensions such as service and price.
 Another commonly implemented feature lets consumers rate others' reviews
 as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

helpful
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

useful
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Reputation systems also display certain basic facts about reviewers such
 as their review history, a profile picture, and location, though they do
 not require that reviewers disclose their true identity.

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512686486
 Most reputation systems allow anyone to submit to review, which has raised
 concerns about review fraud (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "mayzlin2014promotional"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "luca2016fake"

\end_inset

).
 Various strategies are in place to mitigate this concern including publishing
 reviews only by consumers whose purchases can be verified, highlighting
 reviews that can be linked to verified purchases using special badges,
 and relying on fraud-detection algorithms to discard fake reviews.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686491

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686522
SS: my take would be to drop the fraud part, it doesn't connect much with
 other things in this section.
 But I don't feel super-strongly, so happy to keep it if you guys see it
 differently.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686541
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512503105
SS: two things here:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512503123
* set up structure of this section, i.e.
 valence, volume, etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512686986
* say something about how papers were selected (representative of lit.).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687012
I took a stab at both things below, obviously feel free to edit or discard
 ;)
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687132
In the remainder of this section we discuss findings from the existing academic
 literature around three important aspects of consumer reviews: (1) review
 valence, (2) volume of reviews, and (3) content of reviews.
 Establishing a causal relationship between a particular aspect of reviews
 and demand is challenging in all three cases for the reasons outlined in
 Section 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "subsec: measurement challenges"

\end_inset

.
 Therefore, the papers we cite below are all characterized by the type of
 methods for causal inference discussed above.
 In a few specific cases, researchers were able to study WOM impact directly
 through A/B tests.
 We also note that the literature on reviews is large and we are not able
 to exhaustively cover all relevant papers.
 Our discussion therefore focuses on papers that emphasize an empirical
 strategy that convincingly recovers a causal effect.
 Furthermore, we showcase specific papers that are broadly representative
 for the broader literature regarding each specific aspect of consumer reviews.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Review valence
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The most common way in which reputation systems aggregate the plethora of
 information they collect is to compute an average rating for each business
 or product.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
An average rating is simply the 
\emph on
unweighted
\emph default
 mean of all individual ratings a business or product has received, often
 rounded to the nearest decimal point of half-star.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Average ratings, which are meant to capture overall quality, are prominently
 displayed and used to rank products and businesses in response to user
 queries.
 For instance, the query 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

hotels in San Francisco
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 on TripAdvisor is likely to return higher-rated hotels as the top search
 results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Maybe due to their wide use and simplicity, average ratings have been well-studi
ed.
 By now, it is well-established that average ratings have a substantial
 causal impact on demand and pricing, though the magnitude of this effects
 varies by timing and context.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
eBay's reputation system, which allows buyers and sellers on the platform
 to rate each other, was among the first to be studied and has been the
 focus of tens of studies (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "ba2002evidence"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "houser2006reputation"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lucking2007pennies"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "eaton2002value"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "bajari2003winner"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "kalyanam2001return"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "mcdonald2002reputation"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "cabral2010dynamics"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "dewally2006reputation"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "jin2006price"

\end_inset

).
 The findings of these papers, which rely on different methods and study
 different eBay product categories are broadly consistent: highly-rated
 sellers attract more bidders in their auctions, fetch higher prices, and
 sell their items with higher probability.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687183
Interestingly, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "jin2006price"

\end_inset

 show that the while high-rated sellers can charge a premium, this is not
 because they sell higher quality products.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687187

\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687236
SS: maybe I am nit-picking here.
 But if high rated sellers did offer better products, then this wouldn't
 really be a causal effect of the rating, right? So I feel this statement
 is implied in saying the rating effect is causal.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Similar effects for review valence have been demonstrated on other review
 and e-commerce platforms.
 For example, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "chevalier_mayzlin2006"

\end_inset

 find that the sales ranks of books on Amazon depend on their average ratings.
 Looking at Yelp 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Luca_2016"

\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "anderson_magruder_2012"

\end_inset

 estimate the impact of average ratings on restaurant demand and respectively
 find that a one-star increase in ratings causes a 5% increase in revenue
 and a 50% increase in the probability of being sold out.
 To demonstrate causality, both of these studies rely on 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687254
a clever regression discontinuity (RD)
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687255
the RD
\change_unchanged
 design 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687265
that exploits the fact that Yelp rounds average ratings to the nearest half-star
: a business with a 4.24 average is rounded down to 4 stars, while a business
 with a nearly identical rating of 4.25 stars is up to 4.5 stars
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687316
described at the end of Section 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "subsec: correctly measuring"

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
.
 Using the same RD strategy 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "luca2013digitizing"

\end_inset

 study ZocDoc, a platform that allows consumers to rate doctors and make
 appointments with them, and find that a half-star increase in ratings is
 associated with 10% increase that an appointment will be filled.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While many studies have investigated the impact of average ratings, less
 is known about other aggregate measures.
 One exception is the work of 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "sun2012variance"

\end_inset

 who studies the variance of ratings.
 Reputation systems do not explicitly display rating variances.
 However, most display histograms of reviews counts broken down by rating.
 By looking at these histograms of ratings consumers can infer their variance.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687351
Motivated by a theoretical model, 
\change_unchanged

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "sun2012variance"

\end_inset

 presents empirical evidence that increased variance in ratings has a positive
 impact on the demand of low-rated products.
 The key intuition behind this result is that low-rated products with some
 high individual ratings (
\emph on
i.e.
\emph default
, high variance) may be appealing to at least a certain subset of consumers,
 while products with consistently low ratings (
\emph on
i.e.
\emph default
, low variance) are less likely to be appealing to anyone.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Review volume
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another salient and well-studied feature of reputation systems is review
 volume.
 Review counts are typically displayed prominently next to average ratings,
 and consumers can also use them to infer quality.
 All else equal, we may expect that consumers will have less uncertainty
 about the quality of products with more reviews.
 Therefore, increases in review volume could lead to increased demand.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687390
While the hypothesis that changes in review volume affect demand is plausible,
 testing it raises a complex identification challenge: while more reviews
 may cause sales, the reverse is also true, 
\emph on
i.e.
\emph default
, increased sales can result in more reviews.
 Finding instruments or plausibly exogenous variation in review volume has
 proven to be difficult.
 Therefore, to resolve this reserve causality issue, researchers have primarily
 relied on experimental methods.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687443

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687437
SS: I tried to talk about causality in the paragraph just before 3.1.
 Importantly, the causality concerns are not unique to volume but apply
 similarly to valence and content.
 Therefore it seems more natural to discuss them up-front
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687447
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687490
SS: for completeness.
 Does your paper with Greg (the one using the merger) not look at review
 volume.
 Presumably the merge as a large impact on that.
 Also, I think at least one of the Mayzlin papers does look at both valence
 and volume.
 Should that be cited here as well?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "resnick2006value"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "pallais2014inefficient"

\end_inset

 investigate the link between review volume and demand using experiments.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "resnick2006value"

\end_inset

 were – to the best of our knowledge – the first to use a controlled experiment
 to study the value of online reputation.
 The experiment was conducted on eBay.
 An postcard seller with established reputation was asked to create a set
 of new ideninties.
 Being new, these identities started out with no reviews, and from the perspecti
ve of consumers were not associated with the sellers established identity.
 The seller randomly assigned items to be sold under the various identies
 while making sure to offer the same quality of service to all customers.
 The main result of the experiment was that consumers' willingness to pay
 was 8% higher for purchasing from the established seller even though the
 items sold across the various identities were similar.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "pallais2014inefficient"

\end_inset

 studies the value of reputation on oDesk, an online marketplace where employers
 can hire workers to perform various tasks.
 The oDesk experiment involved hiring approximately 1,000 workers to perform
 the same data-entry task.
 Workers were randomly assigned to the treatment or control group.
 Treated workers received detailed and objective feedback on their performance,
 whereas workers in the control group received equally objective but less
 detailed feedback.
 Treated workers had better future employment outcomes, such as higher wages
 and earnings, compared to workers in the controlled group who performed
 as well on the data-entry task but received coarser feedback.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Both of these experiments point to the substantial economic benefits of
 establishing a reputation on an online platform
\emph on
, 
\emph default
for instance by having at least one detailed review.
 At the same time, while a number of observational studies have used review
 volume as predictor of sales, the question of experimentally measuring
 the marginal impact of a unit increase in review volume on demand and prices
 remains an interesting open question, in part because there is no straightforwa
rd way to experimentally manipulate review volume in the field.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687573

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512687573
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512687573

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512081072
SS: I don't quite understand that last sentence.
 You mean that the studies only looked at no reviews versus some positive
 amount rather than varying the amount of reviews at the margin.
 It might be worth expanding on this point a bit more as it is not fully
 clear.
 Also, is this something that is hard to implement as an experiment or why
 haven't people looked at the marginal impact?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Review content 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: I like this paragraph.
 One question, how can we get causality from the text-mining approaches?
 I assume they mine existing (and hence non-random) text.
 We should be a bit careful in describing these given our focus on causality.
 The second approach described below fits more naturally.
 
\change_inserted 2105412453 1511997727

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511997829
SY: I think we may need some qualification here.
 The first approach may be more prone to bias (e.g., more popolar leads to
 more positive comments).
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512081223

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512081255
SS: Just to re-iterate.
 In line with the theme of this article, we need to talk about causality
 especially with regards to the first approach below.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Review text is inherently high-dimensional and typically not amenable to
 analysis by the same methods researchers use to study
\change_deleted -503570337 1511884619
 
\change_unchanged
 review valence and volume.
 Therefore, most analyses of review text rely on a pre-processing step that
 transforms text into a small number of variables that capture variation
 along dimensions of interest.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751228
In principle, t
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751228
T
\change_unchanged
hese variables can subsequently be analyzed using 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751200
traditional
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751201
standard
\change_unchanged
 econometric approaches.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751212
However, finding plausibly exogenous variation in variables created from
 existing text is difficult, and thus causal interpreations of the effect
 of language on demand often require strong identication assumptions.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At a high level, two approaches have been employed in the literature to
 convert text into a small number of variables.
 First, researchers have used statistical approaches that rely on dimensionality
 reduction algorithms to map text onto low dimensional measures.
 Statistical approaches themselves vary in their sophistication from the
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751239
direct 
\change_unchanged
application of simple formulas to compute metrics like readability to complex
 methods like topic modeling 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "blei2003latent"

\end_inset

 that can extract latent structure and meaning from unstructured data.
 Another common approach to reduce the dimensitionality of text is the use
 of pre-built and validated dictionaries like LIWC 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "tausczik2010psychological"

\end_inset

 that measure the incidence of psychometric attributes such as affect and
 emotion in text.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "moe2017social"

\end_inset

 provide a comprehensive review of the statistical approaches used to analyze
 text from reputation systems and social media.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751251

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751455
These approaches allow the researcher to characterize existing text along
 different dimensions and these content characteristics can then be correlated
 with sales.
 The obstacles to obtaining causal estimates described earlier also apply
 to this setting and any analysis of existing text does not allow the researcher
 to conclude which characteristics of review content have a positive impact
 on demand.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Several papers have used statistical methods to uncover interesting patterns
 in review text.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "ghose2011estimating"

\end_inset

 study the text of Amazon.com reviews and find
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751625
 that reviews
\change_unchanged
 that objectivity, readability, and lack of spelling errors 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751628
increase
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751632
is correlated with higher
\change_unchanged
 product sales.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "archak2011deriving"

\end_inset

 extract product features from review text to elicit the pricing power of
 each feature.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751646

\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751670
SS: this seems a little unclear to me.
 what does it mean to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

elicit the pricing power
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "ghose2012designing"

\end_inset

 also extract product features from review text
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751597
.
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751601
, and incorporate these features in a utility model that is used to rank
 product by expected utility in response to consumer queries.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751602
 
\change_unchanged

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "ludwig2013more"

\end_inset

 show that positive and negative affective content (e.g., words like 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

love
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

hate
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, which are detected using LIWC) are 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751546
positivelu
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751546
positively
\change_unchanged
 associated with conversion rates.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751560

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "buschken2016sentence"

\end_inset

 study the sentence structure of reviews by fitting a topic model that allows
 topics to vary from sentence to sentence compared to the common practice
 of  estimating a single topic distribution for each review.
 The sentence topic model is found toproduce more meaningful topics and
 to fit the data better than topic models than ingore sentence stucture.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751564

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751585
SS: the last paper did not seem to fit well, it is more a technical point
 than a substantive one.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second approach is grounded in consumer behavior theory and starts by
 forming a hypothesis regarding the effects of specific text constructs.
 These constructs are typically detected manually (
\emph on
e.g.
\emph default
, using human coders), or with simple pattern matching rules.
 Sometimes, researchers combine this technique with machine learning: after
 manually labeling a small set of reviews, a classifier is trained to predict
 the presence of specific text constucts in larger unlabelled review corpora.
 An advantage of using theory to form hypotheses is that one can design
 experiments to test these hypotheses leading to internally valid estimates.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "packard2017language"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "kupor2017spontaneous"

\end_inset

 offer examples of this approach.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "packard2017language"

\end_inset

 combine lab experiments and field data to investigate how the language
 consumers use in to endorse products affects how persuasive their reviews
 are.
 The authors find explicit endorsements (``I recommended this book'') are
 more persuasive than implicit endorsements (``I enjoyed this book'').
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751876
Interestingly, novice users are found to be more likely to use explicit
 endorsements that experts, suggesting that novice reviews are more persuasive
 than expert reviews.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "kupor2017spontaneous"

\end_inset

 also use lab experiments to investigate the effects of endorsement authenticity.
 The study find that endorsements that are perceived to be more authentic
 are more convincing than endorsements that are perceived to be more thoughtful.
 For example, product endorsements that contain typographical errors are
 perceived as more authentic, thus enhancing their persuasiveness.
 Interestingly, these result contrast to the 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751902
(correlational) 
\change_unchanged
findings of 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "ghose2012designing"

\end_inset

, who find that reviews with spelling errors have a smaller impact on demand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Both approaches for studying the effects of review text are valuable.
 Statistical approaches can uncover patterns in text whose importance might
 not be evident a priori.
 At the same time, statistical approaches offer no direct connection to
 theory, and ex-post linking patterns uncovered by statistical methods to
 theoretical constructs can be difficult.
 Consumer behavior theory can help resolve these problems by guiding our
 search in the high-dimensional space of language patterns, and informing
 the design of experiments to estimate causal treatment effects.
\change_deleted -503570337 1511811878

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751934
Other Literature Reviews 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512751930
GZ: This para may be better suited for the overall chapter conclusion than
 this particular section.
 Discuss 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "dellarocas2003digitization"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "luca2015user"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger2014word"

\end_inset

.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751930

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Moderators 
\change_deleted -503570337 1511810973
and mechanism
\change_inserted -503570337 1511813456
 of the
\emph on
 
\emph default
relationship between reviews and demand 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -503570337 1511809506
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -503570337 1511809506
SS: 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512592302
Giorgos, can you please add an organizing framework here.
 Maybe something around uncertainty and informative effects would be useful.
\change_inserted -503570337 1511809506

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, the findings in the literature point towards substantial causal
 effects on the impact of ratings, review volume, and review text on demand.
 In addition to studying these features directly, a number of papers have
 examined various moderators of the relationship between reviews and demand.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A consistent theme that has emerged in the literature is that the relationship
 between ratings and demand (or prices) depends on consumers' prior quality
 uncertainty.
 For instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Luca_2016"

\end_inset

 finds that that Yelp ratings do impact the revenue of chain restaurants
 because there exists little a priori uncertainty about their quality.
 Similarly, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lewis2016welfare"

\end_inset

 find that the impact of TripAdvisor ratings is much smaller for chain-affiliate
d hotels than it is for independently operated properties.
 Also looking at the hotel industry, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "hollenbeck2016online"

\end_inset

 investigates the evolution of the relationship between brand value and
 demand and finds that between 2000 and 2015 the impact of branding on revenue
 declined by 50% due increased adoption of consumer reviews.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consumer awareness is another important moderator of the impact of ratings
 on demand.
 In a fascinating study, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger2010positive"

\end_inset

 show that even negative reviews can have a positive impact on sales when
 they cause a sufficient increase in awareness.
 By contrast, negative reviews for well-known products decrease sales, as
 expected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The provenance of reviews also affects their impact on demand.
 For instance, an emerging feature of reputation systems is the ability
 to read and write reviews via mobile applications.
 Review platforms typically indicate whether a review was written using
 a mobile app or a desktop site.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "grewal2016mobile"

\end_inset

 compare reviews submitted via mobile applications to reviews submitted
 using a desktop a website.
 Using a combination of TripAdvisor data, and lab experiments they show
 that mobile reviews are more persuasive, and thus have a larger impact
 on demand, than desktop reviews.
 The mechanism underlying this effect is that when consumers believe that
 reviewers who use a mobile app have to put in an extra effort in composing
 reviews (e.g., due to the physical limitations of small phone screens), and
 thus their reviews are more trustworthy than review submitted via a traditional
 desktop website.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Demand 
\change_inserted -503570337 1512402718
also 
\change_unchanged
depends on the timing of reviews with respect to the product life-cycle.
 Relying on meta-analysis, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "babic2016effect"

\end_inset

 find that early reviews are more important in driving the sales for new
 products than they are for new services because service quality can vary
 greatly over time whereas product quality remains relatively fixed.
 Thus recent reviews are far more important for services whereas initial
 reviews are more important for products.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, it worth mentioning that the effects we have discussed above are
 unlikely to represent long-term equilibrium outcomes.
 As consumers pay more attention to the increasing number of reviews accumulatin
g online, the influence of these reviews on demand and pricing will also
 likely become stronger.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "lewis2016welfare"

\end_inset

 provide some evidence for the evolution of these treatment effect by looking
 at hotel demand as a function of TripAdvisor ratings over a decade.
 The study finds that the impact of a 1-star increase in a hotel's average
 rating went for zero to 25% between 2004 and 2014.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751944

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512751995
Consumer Reviews: Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752007
Discuss 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "dellarocas2003digitization"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "luca2015user"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger2014word"

\end_inset

 here (and say some other general stuff)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Online Conversations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: my take on how to organize this paragraph:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1) move some of the content on identification strategy into section 2.3 above.
 What seems to fit here is our natural experiment and the influential re-tweet
 condition from Gong et al.
 The latter might actually be illegal in the US if the side payment is not
 declared (against truth in advertising standards), so it might be worth
 highlighting that.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
2) Section on impact / effect magnitude (this is already the case)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** a) within this section distinguish volume and text (it might also be
 worth drawing a parallel to reviews where we have valence/volume/text,
 here valence does not exists due to the nature of conversations; this is
 an important difference)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** b) it might be nice to also discuss why there is less research on this
 topic relative to reviews (data availability etc.?)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** c) With regards to text we can talk about our findings regarding positive/neg
ative sentiment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** d) My take is that the Gong et al.
 and Petrova et al.
 studies really do not fit very well with the overall theme because they
 are not about WOM but firms' own tweets.
 I would drop that content.
 The one thing to retain might be the influential re-tweet aspect of Gong
 et al.

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511998773
 SY: I dropped Petrova et al.
 and keep Gong et al.'s discussion on retweets.
 I don't think they actually calibrate elasticities.
 The effect is large but it is not an elasticity.
 I note it in the writing.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** e) Is there really nothing else on conversations that is even close to
 causal? The one other set of papers that came to my mind are the movie
 ones like Gilchrist et al.
 (and there are a few others that are related).
 They do not have WOM data, but essentially think of the demand dynamics
 they find as driven by WOM.

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511998786
 I can only think Moretti (2011) fits.
 Several other papers, e.g., Knight and Schiff (2010), Cabral and Natividad
 (2016), and so on, mostly are about social learning where WOM don't necessarily
 happen.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
3) Section on moderators / mechanisms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** a) Related to my comment above, I would not talk about Gong et al.
 here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
** b) It would be good to have a discussion regarding possible dimensions
 of heterogeneity / possible moderators (even if we have no papers on this).
 That would align this section with the corresponding one on reviews somewhat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
4) Comments on Section 5.1 (how to influence WOM) are in that section.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We now turn to a second important domain of online WOM, which is 
\shape italic
online conversations
\shape default
.
 This type of WOM involves consumers discussing topics on social media platforms
 such as Twitter or Facebook.
 Here we are particularly interested in online discussions pertaining to
 a product which may affect the product's demand.
 We lay out what is known about the impact of online conversations on demand
 following a similar structure as in the previous section on reviews.
 In particular, we discuss the impact of the volume as well as the content
 of online conversations.
 Note that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

valence,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 which was discussed in the context of reviews, is not a characteristic
 that can describe online conversations due to the absence of an 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752141
intuitive 
\change_unchanged
aggregation mechanism such as the average ratings score.
 We then turn to a discussion of the moderators of WOM effects in the realm
 of online conversations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Apart from the absence of a summary measure such as the average rating,
 there are at least two more important differences between conversations
 and reviews.
 First, online conversations have an interactive and social components.
 Reviews instead are posted by consumers after consuming a product and can
 serve to inform or persuade other users when they contemplate purchasing
 the same product.
 Hence reviews normally do not involve any direct interaction of consumers
 with each other.
 Second, conversations about products and brands are less directly tied
 to the timing of the product consumption by any of the involved consumers.
 Consumers might talk about a product after purchasing it or when contemplating
 a purchase.
 This conversation is observed by others and can influence their purchase
 behavior.
 Consumers might even be influenced to purchase a product in anticipation
 of being able to participate in conversations about the product after the
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752228
consumption
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752229
purchase
\change_unchanged
.
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752231

\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
In principle, the prospect of being able to post a review might have a similar
 effect.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_inserted -1412874244 1512095741

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We also note that the academic literature on online conversations is 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752359
much 
\change_unchanged
small
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752361
er
\change_unchanged
, at least in terms of studies that use
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752369
 A/B tests or other 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752372
 
\change_unchanged
research designs aimed at uncovering causal effects.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752264
This is because online conversations are not directly under the control
 of firms, which makes A/B tests or similar style of methodologies more
 difficult to implement.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752268

\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752341
SS: I removed this sentence b/c it is about conversation being studies less
 than reviews.
 But the point about lack of control does apply to both areas of WOM.
 So I think this sentence is not appropriate at this point in the text.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
The discussion below is therefore shorter than the discussion pertaining
 to reviews.
 At various points below we speculate about possible effects of online conversat
ions that have not been formally investigated yet.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Volume of Online Conversations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Can the volume of online conversations affect sales? Based on the extant
 research, the answer is a qualified yes.
 However, this assessment of effect size is based on only two studies with
 fairly distinct research designs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

 study the effect of customer microblogging on TV viewership, which is essential
ly the demand for TV shows.
 Due to a political scandal, the Chinese government temporarily shut down
 the microblogging platform Sina Weibo in 2012, which was the most important
 and popular social media website in China at the time.
 The block inevitably reduced the volume of online conversations pertaining
 to TV shows.
 An important feature of this block is that it was caused by the political
 scandal, such a reduction in online conversation volume is exogenous to
 the demand or the products themselves (TV shows).
 Relying on this exogenous shock, the authors show that the reduction of
 customer conversation volume does lead to lower consumption of TV shows.
 Accordingly, a higher volume of online conversations may increase the demand.
 But the effect size is at a fairly moderate level of 0.016.
 In words, if the volume of online conversations increases by 100%, the
 demand will increase by 1.6%.
 The magnitude of this effect is significantly lower than most previous
 studies.
 For example the meta-analysis of 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "you_et_al_2010"

\end_inset

 documents a much larger average elasticity of online WOM of 0.2.
 However, many of the previous studies using observational data of online
 WOM and demand are often subject to the measurement challenges described
 in Section XX, and 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752446
in our opinion 
\change_unchanged
are 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752454
therefore 
\change_unchanged
likely to overstate the true effect size.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752471
The paper by 
\change_unchanged

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lovett_staelin"

\end_inset


\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752493
, although not rely on experimental data, 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752495
 
\change_unchanged
also find
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752489
s
\change_unchanged
 online social media and WOM have a positive impact on TV viewership with
 a moderate effect size of 0.04
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752504
, less effective than advertising
\change_unchanged
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a related paper
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512352382
,
\change_unchanged
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "gong_et_al_2015"

\end_inset

 study the effect of microblogging on TV viewership.
 The authors execute a field experiment in China which is primarly focused
 on understanding the impact of a firm's tweets about its own TV show (i.e.
 these tweets do not orginate from private users and hence should not be
 understood as WOM).
 However, the paper also investigates one specific form of WOM, by having
 influential users retweet the companies' tweets for a random subset of
 TV shows.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We note that in the US, hiring influential users to promote a firm's products
 does not conform with FTC's truth-in-advertising standards (to conform
 with the standard, the re-tweet would have to indicate that the users was
 paid for the re-tweet).
\end_layout

\end_inset

 They 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752543
demonstrate
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752543
find
\change_unchanged
 that 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752550
the amount of
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752552
an influential
\change_unchanged
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752802
user's 
\change_unchanged
retweet
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752570
s can
\change_unchanged
 boost
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752573
s
\change_unchanged
 viewership (demand)
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752583
 by 33%.
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752594
, though the paper does not explicitly calibrate the elasticity.

\change_unchanged
 This effect is large in magnitude and (although not directly comparable)
 is contrary to the modest effect size found in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

.
 However, the nature of the WOM is very different here.
 Most likely a re-tweet by an influential user will be more impactful than
 a tweet by the average consumer.
 We return to the influence of the sender's identity on WOM effectiveness
 when discussing moderators of conversational WOM below.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: have to be careful here, it is basically only based on our paper.
 Also, in the Gong et al.
 paper they find a very large effect, so this is not consistent with the
 statement below.
 I don't remember the magnitude of the re-tweet condition, but I think it
 was large too.

\change_inserted 2105412453 1511999056
 SY: Do you think the qualification that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

they do not compute the elasticity
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is sufficient? We really don't have any papers other than ours on this
 subject.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096770

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096771
SS: what is the effect size, I remember it being large.
 We should report it here, seems dishonest not to.
 We can say impact magnitude is ambiguous.
 It is a bit of a special type of WOM though as it is an influential re-tweet.
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512354321

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512354593
SY: See, http://jjzhang.scripts.mit.edu/docs/Gong_Zhang_Zhao_Jiang_2017.pdf,
 the effect size is not calculated in the elasticity sense.
 It is a binary treatment.
 The effect size for retweet is 33% (57% for informative).
 It is large, but as you also pointed out, I don't think we can compare
 it against the elasticity.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_inserted -1412874244 1512096536

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512752642
Although the studies on this topic are sparse, recent research offers insights
 that online conversations do have a moderate positive impact on demand,
 and the effectiveness is slightly less or comparable to advertising.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Content of Conversations
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512099255

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512098070
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: I moved this into a separate section to keep the structure similar to
 the review section (see my new intro to this section).
 It would be worth expanding on what we do a bit below.
 Also, are there not studies similar to the ones Giorgos cites that analyze
 tweet content (I remember Xiao Liu has a paper on something like that).
 These will suffer from not being causal.
 Nevertheless, it might be nice to mention those papers here.
 It would also helps us keep a somewhat parallel structure between the review
 and conversation sections.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752858

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752873
SS: two more points on this section:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512752898
(1) we can/should talk about the informative/sentiment distinction in our
 paper rather than only the positive/negative point
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512755002
(2) we should be careful with the causal claims around content based on
 our paper.
 we are working off effect heterogeneity and hence the statement in the
 text right now seems to strong.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512755036
SS: generally, I did not edit this yet as I felt there is a bit more work
 to be done in terms of integrating more papers and re-writing a bit.
 I am happy to take a stab after that has happened.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another feature of online conversations is the 
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512361662
content of online conversations.
 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512361655
sentiment expressed in the conversations, just as the sentiment embedded
 in online review text.
 
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512361875
Similar to online reviews, the content of online conversation is also high-dimen
sional.
 Therefore, to study online conversations, it requires the same pre-processing
 steps as reviews, which convert text into a small set of variables of interest
 for analysis.
 One of the most commonly studied dimension is the sentiment expressed in
 the conversations.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512361908
For sentiment embedded in the content of conversations, 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512361910
W
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512361910
w
\change_unchanged
e may expect positive sentiment can boost demand and negative sentiment
 dimishes demand
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512361919
.
 For example, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "sonnier_et_al2011"

\end_inset

 find that WOM with positive sentiment enhance sales, and negative WOM reduce
 sales.
 For neutral conversations, they also have a positive effect, potentially
 because they increase the overall volume of conversations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512362745
However, analyzing sentiment in conversations faces the same identification
 challenge where plausibly exogenous variations in field data are rare.
 Accordingly, causal interpreations of the effect of sentiment on demand
 are often difficult.
 In
\change_unchanged
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset


\change_inserted 2105412453 1512365152
, the authors are able to explore the exogenous variation in sentiment of
 conversations to study its impact on demand.
 In their context, the shut-down of the microblogging platform reduced the
 volume of all conversations, including both negative and positive ones.
 Acorss all products (TV shows) contained their data, however, there is
 considerable heterogeneity in the sentiment of each product before or after
 the shut-down.
 Some products in general had more positive conversations, while others
 on average had more negative ones.
 The authors find that, for both shows with more negative conversations
 and those with more positive conversations, when the volume of conversations
 dropped due to the shut-down, they experienced lower demand.
 In other words, conversations with either negative or positive sentiment
 have the same directional effect on demand – less conversations reduce
 demand, more conversations increase demand.

\change_unchanged
 While this finding seems counter-intuitive, it is directly related to the
 mechanisms through which conversations may affect demand, which we will
 further elaborate below.
 
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512364862
In particular, in the case of online conversations, consumption and conversation
s may be complement to each other.
 Namely when a consumer may participate in conversations about the product,
 it may enhance her enjoyment of the consumption.
 In this case, the act of conversation itself is affecting the consumption
 decision, but the sentiment of the conversation, positive or negative,
 is less relevant.
 Instead, when complementarity is the key channel, both types of sentiment
 may enhance demand, because they may simply be the indicator of a heated
 or even controversial debate among enthusiastic consumers.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Moderators of the impact of online conversations
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753031

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753034
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753087
SS: My attempt here was to generally talk about dimensions of heterogeneity
 such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

type of product
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and then later home in on which product characteristics (such as uncertainty)
 really matter.
 Starting with uncertainty seems a bit narrow to me.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Next, we discuss the potential moderators of the impact of online conversations
 on demand.
 We explore whether the 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366334
type
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366917
quality uncertainty pertaining to
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366339
 of
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366341
 the
\change_unchanged
 product being talked about, 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366369
the platform the conversation takes places on, 
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366374

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366412
I am not aware of any worthy research on platform comparisons about conversation
s.
 There are some in the review domain.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753108
SS: ok, let's drop this.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
characteristics of the consumers engaged in the conversation
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366424
,
\change_unchanged
 and the timing of the conversation leads to a differential impact of conversati
ons on demand.
 We analyzed similar moderators, namely the 
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366645
role of
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512366645
uncertainty pertaining to the
\change_unchanged
 product
\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366667
 characteristics and the platform of delivery in the context of review
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753196
 in the context of reviews
\change_unchanged
.
 The characteristics of the consumer engaged in the conversation is likely
 to be more important as consumers are likely to process the average rating
 and total number of reviews without analyzing the identities of the users
 which posted the reviews.
 Instead, the interactive nature of conversation makes it more likely that
 there is heterogeneity in how impactful specific participants in the conversati
on are.
 Finally, conversations can take place before or after a purchase and both
 types of conversations might influence consumers.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512099154

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512099158
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: Sorry for moving this around again.
 There is no clear parallel to the mechanism section in reviews and having
 mechanism and moderators separately does feel a bit odd to me.
 The best I can think of here is to aggregate everything as moderators and
 then describe the timing test first and then tie it back to complementarity
 versus other effects.
 I.e.
 we would reverse the order.
 A lot of the general content could stay, would would have to be moved around
 a bit.
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512364093

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512364099
SY: OK.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753310
To organize the discussion of moderators in the context on online conversations,
 we first present a simple conceptual framework for the possible channels
 through which conversations can influence demand.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753321
Before discussing the moderators, it may be constructive for the discussion
 to first consider  three channels through which online conversations may
 affect consumers' decisions and consequently the overall demand.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753346
We consider, 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753349
The 
\change_unchanged
three 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753355
broad channels
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753365
channels are
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753367
, namely
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753368
,
\change_unchanged
 informati
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753371
ve effects
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753369
on
\change_unchanged
, persuasion, and complementarity
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753387
 between product consumption and online conversations
\change_unchanged
.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753489

\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753506
This taxonomy is based on 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Bagwell_2007"

\end_inset

.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
 Informative effects can arise when online conversations among customers
 generate or disseminate product/brand information that resolves uncertainty
 about the product, enhances the awareness, or purely remind customers about
 the product.
 Persuasive effects may enhance customers' preference towards the product
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753417
, even 
\change_unchanged
without delivering information.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753434
We should note that these two channels are often intertwined and difficult
 to distinguish in practice.
 
\change_unchanged
Lastly, complementarity between online conversations and product consumption
 may happen when customers derive a higher utility from the product consumption
 if they can participate in the online conversations with others who share
 the same interest in the product.
 For example, people may enjoy watching a sports event more when they participar
t in online discussions about the event with others.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753515
These conceptual framework of the three channels was initially proposed
 by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Bagwell_2007"

\end_inset

 for analyzing advertising's impact.
 Although online conversations differ from advertising, the framework may
 be generalized to any kind of information provision, also including online
 conversations.
\change_inserted 2105412453 1512365492

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Because of the informative and persuasive effects of conversations, one
 potential moderator of conversations' impact on demand is consumers' uncertaint
y about the product's quality or value.
 Consider a product where consumers are rather uncertain about its quality.
 Informative online conversations can surely reduce the uncertainty and
 play a role in shaping consumption decisions.
 For example, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "moretti_2011"

\end_inset

 evaluates how customers obtain information about the quality of movies
 from peers before making their decisions.
 Such quality information derived from conversations directly affects consequent
 sales of the 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753741
produt
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753741
product
\change_unchanged
.
 In this paper, however, we should note that the data do not have direct
 measurement of online conversations, and the conversations can happen both
 online and offline.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753754

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753761
SS: what is the specific test for informative effect here?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A second possible moderator is the trustworthiness of participants in the
 conversation.
 This is especially true if the main role of conversations is informative
 or persuasive.
 In the literature of network effect where an individual's decision depends
 on others' in her network, it is well documented that an influential consumer's
 decision may greatly impact those in her network (e.g., 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Katz_Lazarsfeld_1955"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "harikesh_2010"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "IVV_2011"

\end_inset

).
 We conjecture that such patterns may be applied to the current context
 as well, where the online posts by influentials can be crucial in affecting
 others' consumption.
 In 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "gong_et_al_2015"

\end_inset

, for example, the authors show that when a firm's tweets were re-tweeted
 by influential users, it led to additional demand, which mainly came from
 the followers of those influentials.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A third moderator is the timing of the conversations.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753962
In the case of reviews, the exposure to reviews before the consumption may
 affect a consumer's decision.
 For conversations, it may happen both before and after the consumption
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753966
Both the exposure to conversations prior to a purchase as well as the ability
 to engage in conversations after the purchase can in principle affect demand
\change_unchanged
.
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512753982
We note that recent studies
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753855
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512753870
SS: is the plural correct here ;)? It's really just our paper, right?
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754214

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

 study the impact of conversations before or after consumption in the context
 of TV shows and 
\change_unchanged
find that 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754217
even 
\change_unchanged
the 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754031
conversations after the consumption (more precisely, the 
\change_unchanged
anticipation of the post-consumption conversations
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754033
)
\change_unchanged
, 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754036
may
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754238
has a positive impact on demand.
 Instead, conversations prior to the show airing do not impact viewership
 of the show.

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754061
 affect a consumer's consumption decision.

\change_unchanged
 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754248
This finding is directly
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754259
The authors interpret this findings as evidence for 
\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754266
 linked to the third channel through which conversations affect demand,
 the 
\change_unchanged
complementarity between conversations and product consumption
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754844
 (the third channel of influence described above), because informative or
 persuasive effects would both entail an impact of pre-show conversations
 on demand
\change_unchanged
.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754520

\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754536
SS: I am actually not quite sure what the main point of the next few sentence
 is ...
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged
In particular, for some products, the uncertainty regarding quality or value
 cannot be resolved even after the consumption.
 Such products are termed as credence products.
 Automobile repairs, medical procedures, and dietary supplements are good
 examples of such products.
 There are also some products, whose values/quality are fairly subjective,
 for example, a TV show, a movie, or a concert.
 In this case, because the values/quality are difficult to assess, both
 before and after the consumption, the post-consumption conversations may
 become an important complement to the consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754592
In the context of advertising, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "becker_murphy1993"

\end_inset

 first propose the complementarity between consumption and ads.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\noindent
In a recent study by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "tuchman_et_al_2015"

\end_inset

, the authors empirically show such a relationship between product consumption
 and ads watching.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 In the context of online conversations, this complementarity mechanism,
 hence the timing of the conversations, is potentially more important because
 the participation in conversations about the product is arguably a more
 proactive and conscious decision than watching an ad.
 Recently, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "gilchrist_sands_jpe"

\end_inset

 shows the complementarity effect of conversations on increasing movie box
 office sales, namely the potiential to communicate with peers about a movie,
 either before or after watching the movie, will encourage consumers to
 go to the theatre.
 Though in their paper, the conversations can happen both online and offline.
 
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754596

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754626
SS: Gilchrist is not online conversations, so not sure we should put it
 here.
 I also felt explaining the Becker model in more detail was not warranted
 here.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted -1412874244 1512754857
In the online conversation setting, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Seiler_et_al_2017"

\end_inset

 demonstrate that post-consumption conversations are crucial in affecting
 demand, precisely because of the existence of such complementarity effects.
 Using TV viewership (demand) and online microblogging data, the authors
 delve into the timing of the online conversations to the airing of TV shows.
 They show that more conversations 
\emph on
after
\emph default
 a show's airing significantly increase the viewership.
 Intuitively, this finding implies that online conversations have functioned
 through the complementarity channel because, for informative and persuasive
 channels to work, the conversations have to happen 
\emph on
before
\emph default
 the broadcasting of the shows.
 Complementarity channel, on the contrary, may affect one's decision both
 before and 
\emph on
after
\emph default
 the consumption.
 This is because both the pre-show and post-show conversations can be complement
s to the consumption itself.
 In particular, before the show's airing, the anticipation of post-show
 conversations with others may well affect one's consumption decision.
\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754858

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754861
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512754881
SS: this seemed a little lengthy, I tried to weave our paper into the initial
 paragraph on timing.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512365431
Moderators of the
\emph on
 
\emph default
relationship between online conversations and demand 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research on the relationship between online conversations and demand is
 still relatively sparse, in comparison to the research on online reviews.
 Most of the studies so far focus on the magnitude of the effect size and
 potential mechanisms.
 Below, we want to propose a few potential moderators of the relationship.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366114
The first potential moderator is consumers' uncertainty about the product's
 quality or value.
 Consider a product where consumers are rather uncertain about its quality.
 Per the discussion of the mechanisms above, information is a channel through
 which online conversations affect demand.
 As a result, informative online conversations can surely reduce the uncertainty
 and play a role in shaping consumption decisions.
 Furthermore, for some products, the uncertainty regarding quality or value
 cannot be resolved even after the consumption.
 Such products are termed as credence products.
 Automobile repairs, medical procedures, and dietary supplements are good
 examples of such products.
 There are also some products, whose values/quality are fairly subjective,
 for example, a TV show or a concert.
 In this case, because the values/quality are difficult to assess, both
 before and after the consumption, we suspect the complementarity channel
 may be especially important, where part of the utility is derived from
 the conversations, where the value/quality of the product becomes less
 critical.
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512099694
SS: is there any research on this or just conjecture? Might be good to draw
 parallels to reviews where uncertainty does seem to matter.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512366114
The second possible moderator is the trustworthiness of participants in
 the conversation.
 This is especially true if the main role of conversations is informative
 or persuasive.
 In the literature of network effect where an individual's decision depends
 on others' in her network, it is well documented that an influential consumer's
 decision may greatly impact those in her network (e.g., 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Katz_Lazarsfeld_1955"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "harikesh_2010"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "IVV_2011"

\end_inset

).
 We conjecture that such patterns may be applied to the current context
 as well, where the online posts by influentials can be crucial in affecting
 others' consumption.
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted -1412874244 1512099659
SS: can link this influential re-tweet condition in Gong et al.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
How can Firms Influence WOM Generation? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Online Reviews
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
GZ: Adding some ideas here to be written up later.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Fake reviews is one way to influence things eg see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "mayzlin2014promotional,luca2016fake"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Responding to reviews is another way to participate and influence things,
 e.g., see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "proserpio2017online"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Online Conversations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: It would be good to have some organizing principle here.
 It feels like a fairly disconnected list of topics: I.e.
 what tools do firms in principle have at their disposition to influence
 WOM.
 I think there is an entire literature that thinks about such issues, such
 as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

seeding
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 WOM campaigns.
 If we want to tackle this topic, I think you would have to read up on that
 literature.
 Some of the stuff below also seems to relate only indirectly to how firms
 can influence WOM.
 For instance which products are talked about more often seems less related
 to influencing WOM (unless one things of only releasing products that will
 garner WOM).
 The same is true for message fit, what exactly does this imply for firms'
 WOM strategy? In any case, some kind of general structure is needed for
 this paragraph to make sense.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Having established that online conversations, especially the volume, may
 affect demand, it is tricky in understanding what actually drives the volume.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The sentiment of conversations may be much more difficult to control, and
 manipulating the sentiment potentially has some legal and ethical implications.
 Furthermore, when the complementarity channel is at work, even conversations
 with negative sentiment can increase demand (see Section XXX).
 We will mainly focus on the discussion on 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

volume.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 For example, what types of content are more likely be shared among users
 in their conversations, and what types of individuals on social media platforms
 are more likely to share or forward content?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
A number of studies have investigated how content of online conversations
 may affect the spread and hence enhance the overall volume of online conversati
ons.
 For example, through a series of studies, Berger and coauthors evaluate
 what content and products are more likely to be discussed on social network.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger2011"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger_milkman"

\end_inset

 suggest content or products that result in certain emotions (e.g., anxiety
 or amusement) are more likely to lead to more social sharing and online
 conversations.
 Such emotions are often associated with high level of awareness, alert,
 or attention of customers.
 In contrast, some other emotions, such as sadness, are less likely to lead
 to more social sharing and online conversations.
 In another study, using both field experiments and lab experiments, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "berger_schwartz"

\end_inset

 show that, on one hand, interesting products may generate more immediate
 conversations, but the attention may diminish soon.
 In the long run, these products receive less ongoing discussion over time.
 On the other hand, products that are more publicly visible enjoy a more
 sustainable WOM trend among customers.
 Using twitter data, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "zhang_2017"

\end_inset

 further highlight the importance of fit between message content and the
 interest of the user.
 When the content of a message fits a user's interest, which is identified
 using the user's past tweets, the message is more often rebroadcasted by
 the user.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512322470
Another stream of research consider the question of how to identify the
 types of users who are more crucial in driving the volume of online conversatio
ns.
 For example, since the seminal work by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Katz_Lazarsfeld_1955"

\end_inset

, there are abundant studies that emphasize the importance of influential
 users' impact on others in the network (e.g., 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "harikesh_2010"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "IVV_2011"

\end_inset

).
 It is intuitive to generalize the argument that on social media platforms
 influential users may affect the broadcasting decisions of others in their
 network.
 As a result, some studies that focus on identifying the influential users
 and users' susceptibility to influence from others (e.g., 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "trusov_influential_users"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "zhang_2017"

\end_inset

).
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We should note that, as 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "watts_dodds"

\end_inset

 argue, whether influential individuals are more crucial in online WOM is
 still debatable – A large cluster of easily influenced individuals may
 be more important than influential users.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SS: the paragraph below seems to be more about inference, we should move
 this somewhere else as it does not connect well with the rest of the section.

\change_inserted 2105412453 1512013792
 SY: After some thoughts, I've decided to drop the discuss below.
 I agree that it reads disconnected.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512013749
One problematic approach is to directly gauge which types or groups of customers
 have more activities on social media.
 As discussed in Section XX, such an approach can be biased and often overestima
te the roles of certain groups of customers in enhancing online conversations.
 For example, suppose a firm released a new product and subsequently observed
 there was a large uptick in online conversations originated from some certain
 geographic areas.
 It happened to be the case that, due to limited inventory, the product
 was only initially rolled out in those areas.
 It would be erroneous to draw the inference that customers in those areas
 were more crucial in driving online conversations about the product.
 To avoid such incorrect conclusions, many studies rely on exogenous variations
 in data to derive inference.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "aral_walker"

\end_inset

, for example, use a large scale of field experiment on Facebook to investigate
 which types of customers are more likely to influence or be influenced
 on a social network.
 They randomly choose recipients out of a representative sample of 1.3 million
 Facebook users to receive messages from their friends about a product.
 They then monitor the adoption behavior of these users as well as collect
 demographic information of these users and of those from whom they receive
 the messages.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
While the exact key performance indicator (KPI) or outcome variable in this
 study is the adoption of a product instead of the increase in conversation
 volume, the product can be easily conceptualized as online conversation
 such as a tweet.
 Correspondingly, the adoption of the product is the rebroadcasting of the
 tweet.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 They find that older users are less susceptible than their younger counterparts
, women are less influential than men, but can influence men more than they
 do on other women, and married individuals are the least likely to be influence
d.
 Interestingly, influential users are less susceptible than non-influential
 users and they are more likely to cluster together in the network.
 This finding suggests that the spread of products or message in a network
 may crucially depend on influential people with influential friends.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SY: This seems to be redundant now.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

In this study, the field experiments renders the results more convincing
 because it helps mitigating different potential biases.
 First, because of the random assignment of the treatment, it avoids confounding
 factors such as selection bias where firms or the platform specifically
 choose to target customers who previously show more interests in related
 conversations or products.
 Second, the experiments also uses identical messages which eliminate the
 heterogeneity often seen in tailored/curated content that may affect customers'
 responses.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
SY: I agree it is weak at the mechanism.
 But I thought it has improved in other dimensions since the early draft.
 We can certainly drop it as you see fit.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 2105412453 1512007615
As another example that follow a similar strategy to avoid biased inference,
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "lambrecht_trend_twitter"

\end_inset

 use field experiments on Twitter to study whether early trend propagators
 are more likely to spread words about firms and products.
 To be specific, they collaborate with two companies who post content (ads)
 on Twitter.
 Using user past activities on Twitter, they identify users who share early
 trendy topics on Twitter more often, i.e., early trend propagators.
 They randomly target the content at those early trend propagators and those
 who only embrace trends later.
 Next, they monitor the users to see who are more likely to tweet or retweet
 the content.
 While the conventional wisdom suggests that the early trend propagators
 should be more likely to disseminate the content, they do not find such
 evidence in the data.
 In fact, they find exactly the opposite where consumers who are not early
 trend propagators are more likely to tweet or retweet the content.
 
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{spacing}{1}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "WOM_book_chapter"
options "econometrica"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{spacing}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
